UFOs are a Swiss Army knife for
intelligence. They can use them for
anything.
He was seeing lights like out somewhere
on the base like lifting up off the
ground and flying over a mountain and
going down. And they were just glowing
orbs
and he said that he could look through
binoculars and sometimes see like air
force people or somebody walking around
them before they took off.
He built apparently a setup and started
listening to transmissions coming from
the base. He said there were dinosaurs
and like old like Roman battles and
stuff.
The Air Force had taken him in a
helicopter, flown him up to northwestern
New Mexico and showed him stuff saying,
"Look, we think there's something going
on here." And they actually put jeeps
and like water tanks and all kind of
stuff in this place as props. And then
he starts to kind of lose his mind. Is
that is that right? Or
Yeah. As things get worse, he went there
with a camera and took pictures.
Ben was there with like a like a rifle
and a pistol and he said, you know,
they're coming. You have to come in the
house right now.
The idea that UFOs are a cover for just
prosaic technology is totally wrong. In
fact, it's the opposite. Proaic
technology is often used as a cover for
UFO. It's an interesting discussion.
Yeah, probably both. In fact, it's
demonstrabably both.
Imagine the Benowitz operation as a
24-hour long stage play. And Benowitz is
five minutes in one scene. Not even 5
minutes.
I'm here with Greg Bishop, who is the
excellent author of Project Beta and
most recently, It Defies Language. And
uh I know you to be a very hard-headed
UFO uh journalist, investigator who
sometimes reports on things that fly in
the face of what the believers of
everything want. And uh the first kind
of great example of that is in Project
Beta where you documented this guy named
Paul Benowitz who's this earnest uh
industry man in aerospace and he is
driven kind of crazy by the Air Force
Office of Special Investigations,
specifically this counter intelligence
agent named Rick Dodie. And it makes for
an amazing kind of dramatic thriller.
I'm excited to get into the weeds with
you. Thank you for being here.
Thank thanks for inviting me. Benowitz
wasn't involved in aerospace
and he was already kind of unstable to
begin with. It's just the Air Force
AFOSI and other people just encouraged
it and made it worse.
There you go.
Which is no excuse, but everybody says,
"Oh, he was perfectly okay." No, he was
kind of heading down that road. It's
just when somebody in power tells you
something.
Yeah.
It's like, oh, well, that must be right.
So, you just keep, you know,
Well, didn't he have a company that sold
components to aerospace?
They still do. His sons still run it. at
least one of them and a thunder
scientific temperature and humidity
instruments.
Okay.
I think it's it's humidifiers and um and
things to monitor temperature and
humidity in like highly you know
corrosive or whatever environments like
on submarines or on aircraft or
whatever. So that's he actually had as
far as I know contracts with the
military for these things along with a
bunch of you know scientific
organizations and stuff
and he uh both lives and his office is
near Kirtland Air Force Base like
basically across the street or what's
the
his house is in the four hills area of
Albuquerque which is on the border of
the north side of Kirtland Air Force
Base.
Okay.
And his office was near the Wyoming gate
of Kirtland Air Force Base. So at work
or at home, he was always like right
next to the
base.
So and the company's still there. If you
go there, there's a big sign little sign
that says Thunder Scientific.
Um and I think his son, one of his sons
is still the president. And um I'm not
sure if his wife is still alive. Cindy,
I think her name is or was. But yeah,
that's on like I said, it's just if you
you could walk out his front door and
down a street like two minutes and
you're at the fence that says, you know,
government facility, do not trespass,
all that stuff.
So, this is the late '7s. Paul Benowitz
is living and working around Kirtland
Air Force Base. What's he like as a as a
person? the people I do know that knew
him such as Bill Moore, um Dodie, um and
um Gabe Valdez. Those are three people I
talked to who knew him.
And mostly because I was talking about
that period, they talk about him getting
more and more frightened about stuff,
but
I've seen pictures of him before all
this started happening.
Mhm.
And he he's got this mischievous look on
his face. He looks like a he looks like
a grown-up kid. There's a I've seen a
picture of his um
application to APRO, Aerial Phenomena
Research Organization,
and he's just kind of standing there
like kind of [laughter] it's kind of
like, wow, that doesn't look like Paul
Benoitz. I think of him as like this
scared, paranoid person, but um you
know, in the picture, which is just
snippet of somebody, he he looks
actually pretty pretty happy and funny.
There's a um picture of him in the
Albuquerque Journal or Tribune, one of
the two, uh in 1981 or two. He looks way
different. He has long hair and a big
beard and he's kind of sitting there and
he looks very serious.
And it was just uh profile of him in his
business. But um
anything about his childhood or was he
was he a generally credulous person who
believed in other sort of you know crazy
lore growing up?
I don't think so. The only thing I knew
about and I can't remember who I found
this out from is he liked to read Wild
West novels.
Okay.
You know um also he was a private pilot.
Uh he had a he had a pilot's license
also. I think he did arabatic flying
which made me feel closer to him because
I have a pilot's license too and I've
done some arabatic flying. Um, but it's
just, you know, there's not a lot on his
background. People actually said,"Well,
why don't you get into his background?"
And what was just your question? And I
said, "Well, nobody that was close to
him wanted to talk to me for obvious
reasons."
Yeah.
Cuz I was like, "We don't want to dig
that up again."
So, he's living and working near
Kirtland Air Force Base. Kitland Air
Force Base has an interesting history in
just UFO lore. I believe it was managed
back in the day by the Sandia offshoot
of the Atomic Energy Commission.
Oh, okay. Okay. And and so um a couple
of places where it shows up in UFO lore
just to kind of set the set the scene
for people maybe take this with a grain
of salt, but you have uh Bill Steinman
who is a UFO researcher who writes about
the Aztec crash which is a very
controversial crash.
Yeah, I have his book. I talked to him
on the phone once actually.
Oh wow. I want to hear about that
because he seemed like a very
interesting guy. He was actually People
don't know this. He was a skunk works
employee and he was pushed out of
that I didn't know
because he was so interested in this
topic. Uh, and then he could never
really get a job in aerospace again. But
he, uh, writes about Kirtland Air Force
Base, uh, with respect to a guy named
Eric Henry Wing because he was
interested actually in the Kingman
crash. Yeah. Which is associated with
Operation Upshot Knole, this nuclear
test in 1953 in Nevada at the Nevada
Test Range.
And you have this Arthur Stansel, this
guy who's on the definitely worked at
right airfield at the time. Yeah.
And um, he sees his name in the records
cuz he was this witness of this crash.
He sees a body like a you know 4 foot
body morted or whatever in Kingman and
he Steinman looks him up sees his name
in the record next to a guy named Eric
Henry Wang.
Yeah.
Eric Henry Wang uh was head of special
studies at uh you know right airfield.
He was German.
German studied with Victor Shawberger
actually.
Okay. That I didn't know.
Yeah.
And people say well why is his name
Wang? And I found out and I think this
is true because of the uh of because of
um uh mong uh East Asian you know uh
barbarians came through Germany.
Fascinating.
And so he had this Asian name. He wasn't
he was German but he had this Asian name
because of you know something that
happened in what the third I mean sorry
like the 3rd century or fourth century
or something. There were there were
people named Wang that came through
there and just kind of
the I was gonna say the hun. Not sure.
Not sure he made it to Rome, but
yeah.
Um,
yeah. So, okay.
Mongol hordes did, but apparently that's
where his name came from. Go ahead.
No. No. No. Amazing. I love it. I love
the historical detours. So, um, his name
he's apparently moved from um, right
Patterson or right airfield to Kirtland
Air Force Base. And, uh, I believe
there's even uh, some sort of complex
near Los Alamos that's like named after
him. And but that's it. Like he's kind
of scrubbed from the internet otherwise.
Yeah.
Steinman um
like most people do that kind of work do
that kind of work. Bill Steinman gets in
touch with his wife uh Maria Wing and
she says, "Oh yeah, he worked at
Kirtland Air Force Base. He worked on
some, you know, secret UFO related
stuff."
Yeah, I think they came also came and uh
took a bunch of stuff out of his house
when he died.
Interesting. I
kind of like that that Tesla story where
the Navy goes in in New York and pulls
all the stuff out of storage. But the
same thing I believe h happened with
Eric. That's definitely factual in the
case of Tesla. So, um, yeah. And then
John Trump, Trump's Donald Trump's uncle
actually looks at the Tesla files uh to
see if they can
crazy history, but okay. So, they Yeah.
Raid Wang's house. Um, Steinman speaks
to Maria Wing. She says, "Yes, he's
working on all sorts of spooky stuff."
And, uh, he was managed by Henry A.
Kissinger. So, that's pretty crazy. And
then Henry Kissinger is actually on
record meeting doing these like kind of
um meetings. This guy Don Carter uh who
was head of advanced research at
Kirtland Air Force Base uh in 1962 is
convening these interdisciplinary groups
to talk about UF no not talk not talk
about UFOs talk about we don't know
um you know kind of you know national
defense security and geopolitics and um
and Kisser is on record being there. So
that's the backdrop. Um otherwise all we
know is Kirtland is working on probably
advanced aerospace.
And at what point does Benowitz start to
think that he is picking up some sort of
alien signal or you know he's he's
detecting UFOs.
I think it's 77 or 8.
He was seeing lights fly and uh Chris
Lambrite describes this in his book too.
Um he was seeing lights like out out
somewhere on the base like lifting up
off the ground and flying over a
mountain and going down. They were they
were glowing orbs
and he said that he could look through
binoculars and sometimes see like air
force people or somebody walking around
them before they took off
and they'd go straight up, go over the
mountain and go down. And
it's not clear as to whether they were
doing things that were unconventional or
just kind of doing this because if they
went zoop and they went like you know
then you'd kind of like whoa. So he saw
that for a while and then he started
filming it with 8 millimeter cameras and
then later video early video
and because of that and also because um
the uh he was um doing hypnosis with
this woman MNA Hansen that said she was
um abducted or something had happened to
her. You know at that point Bud Hopkins
book hadn't even come out.
So one of the few people that knew about
this kind of thing was um Leo Sprinkle
and also James Harter. There were two
psychologists and they both worked with
APPRO and as I said um Benowitz was a
member of APRO area phenomena research
organization.
Okay. This is a UFO research group or
something.
They're in Arizona. It was run by J Jim
and Coral Lawren and who had split off
from the Midwest UFO Network which is
now the Mutual UFO Network.
MUON.
Yeah. So um they'd started their own uh
group which they said I think was more
scientific. Anyway, Paul joined them. I'
I've seen his application. It's kind of
cool to just see what he was saying
about himself.
Anything interesting that he said?
Um they said, "What are your what was
it?" He just said, "I can help with some
of the technical aspects." He had a
masters, I think, in electrical
engineering.
Okay, that's right.
Yeah. And he said that he can help with
some of the technical aspects of, you
know, if they wanted to, you know, if
they had any kind of equipment they
wanted to use to start, you know, doing
what people now do now, which is to
detect UFOs. And it's been going on for
years, but we just gotten to the point
in the last 20 years where you can
actually have an automatic system that's
pretty accurate. Um, so he said that
about um his expertise, but he also the
other thing I thought was kind of
fascinating, they said, "What's your
favorite UFO book?" And he said, "Books
by Heinick." That's all he said.
Okay. which is funny because later
Heinik apparently visited his house.
Yeah.
Um and that's how he got in touch with
um at first Leo Sprinkle and Sprinkle
came out um to interview to help him
regress this woman and figure out what
had happened to her.
And Sprinkle after being there, I think
the second time he came,
he said Bennis was there with like a
like a rifle and a pistol and he said,
you know, they're coming. You have to
come in the house right now. This was
before he even contacted the Air Force,
I think.
Wow. So, he was already exhibiting signs
of paranoia and Okay.
Crazy.
You know how we're always diving into
the edge of science and consciousness on
this show. Lately, I've been thinking a
lot about aging, not just in terms of
years, but in how it actually feels in
the body. Slower recovery, lower energy,
that middle-aged fog that sneaks up on
you. I feel like I can barely go out and
drink alcohol anymore. That's why I
started using something called
qualiaenolytic and it's been a major
shift for me. Let me explain. As we age,
our bodies accumulate what scientists
call scesscent cells, also known as
zombie cells. These are worn out cells
that stop dividing but don't die. They
hang around in your body, draining your
energy, clogging up your recovery, and
generally making you feel older than you
are. Qualiosenolytic is a
firstofits-kind supplement formulated
with nine plant-based compounds designed
to help your body naturally eliminate
these zombie cells. It's not something
you take every day, just 2 days a month,
but it supports your body in aging
better at the cellular level. Since I've
started taking it, I've felt sharper,
lighter, and like my body's resilience
has come back online. It's vegan,
non-GMO, and grounded in serious
research. Experience the science of
feeling younger. Go to qualia.com/jessie
for up to 50% off your purchase and use
code jessie. Again, that's Jes.
That's qu i l i f.com/jessej
s for an extra 15% off your purchase.
Thanks so much to Qualia for sponsoring
this episode. So he does he sees these
sort of orb like things going over a
mountain right next to Kirtland.
Yeah.
And then does he detect anything else
like any sort of like signals?
He wasn't at that point. As things
progressed he started putting up um
equipment to detect signals cuz he
thought maybe I can hear what the aliens
are talking about cuz he called the Air
Force and said look there's there's
stuff flying over the base.
Uhhuh. and uh I think it's aliens and I
want to tell you about it and I've got
films and so they're you know the base
was like he's not supposed to be
watching this stuff. So instead of
telling them, "No, no, get out of here."
You know, that that's nothing. Um, it's
national defense or whatever security,
they said, "Well, well, come on down
here and show us what you got." Because
they wanted to see what it was. You
know, is it something we're working on
that he's not supposed to see?
Obviously, it's something we're working
on because he's pointing the camera at
the base.
So, I talked to
um a guy at the NSA who was not there.
Um, his name was Tom Douly. I actually
talk about him in the book. Um but he
had a colleague that was at that meeting
uh the first meeting with Benowitz where
they had all the security people and
like I maybe the commander of the base
I'm not sure but it's certainly all the
security people and some of the military
and civilian people I guess in charge of
different projects at the base because I
wanted to see what he's looking at and
he told me by the end of the meet
everybody started leaving and by the end
of the meeting there was like three or
four people left because they're like oh
that's not ours. Oh that's not ours. So
they didn't care about it, but the
people that were concerned stayed there.
And the only one I know of is the guy
that was ahead of AFOSI at the time, I
think. And he said, "Hey, Paul, this is
interesting. Why don't you keep telling
us what's going on?" Because they wanted
to see, you know, exactly what he's
seeing when he's seeing it. And then
eventually convinced him that he was
working with them. So he trusted them.
So they could basically tell him
whatever they wanted and keep keep an
eye on him. And people keep asking. It's
like, "What did they do that for?" And I
said it was far more valuable to them to
find out what he was seeing, how he was
seeing it. Um if anybody else could do
this, even though he was an electronics
genius and uh who he was talking to,
like anybody could just write him and
say, "I'm a UFO researcher. What are you
doing?" And then they, you know, they
could check up on the person. Maybe he's
maybe is a Russia Russian or Chinese or
otherwise asset. So it's basically so
they could get a handle into what do
these people, you know, who does he
know? What is he telling them? What does
he think's going on? And of course he
tells somebody from you know another
country from a from an adversary and
they'll get clues as to what's being
worked on and they can they can uh um
you know concatenate that with other
information they're getting from other
sources. So it's another source of
information. So they want to make sure
he wasn't some sort of security leak
inadvertently
because they didn't think he was an
enemy agent or anything like that. They
just thought he was kind of a you know
outlaw crazy scientist guy which he kind
of was. and um in keeping in touch with
them, they could keep a lid on that
stuff. And that I think that's why they
contacted Bill Moore. It's like, well,
you're a UFO guy. If you you know, if
you cooperate with us, we'll give you
some secrets. We'll give you some
documents.
And they did. But
so explain that.
Just about all of them turned out to be
crap. [laughter]
So, let's explain that. So, so Bill
Moore is a UFO researcher who's kind of
uh starting to reach peak prominence at
that time. I think in 79 or 80.
Yeah. Because he had he had just written
um co-written the Roswell incident, the
first book about the Roswell crash,
which really put it on the map. Before
that, it was not, you know, before him
and Stanton Friedman 79 to 80. It wasn't
really
Stan kind of discovered what was going
on and then he helped. He was like
Bill's research partner. That's right.
Nobody mentions Bill at the Roswell uh
festival.
He's why they're doing all this. Him and
Stan actually.
Yeah. Well, it might be because of his
his, you know, the souring event of
events
which we'll talk about
which we'll talk about. But he was kind
of, you know, really starting to ascend
in UFO world as a a good researcher. He
had written also the Philadelphia
experiment
and he was on the board of APRO APRO
too. That was the other connection.
Okay. So he is ascending and then what
happens? Does he get sort of co-opted by
counter intelligence or
Yeah, basically he got a letter that was
sent to AppPro and Appro looked at it
and said, "Well, why don't you check
this out?" It was just basically from
this guy who said they were on patrol
somewhere and
it might have been New Mexico. I can't
remember, but he said, "We're on patrol.
We saw this UFO. It was really weird.
Everybody got freaked out, and I just
wanted to write somebody."
Bill checked it out, and he uh told the
APRO people, "It's BS. This is just This
is somebody's fake letter. M
it was supposedly a military person that
wanted to get this information out.
And Bill checked out and the guy didn't
exist.
He did find out the incident may have
happened, but not in the way the guy
said.
So he just said, "Well, ignore this.
It's BS." Um and a few months after
that, he was on tour doing radio shows
for um Roswell Incident. He was at one
radio station. They said, "There's a
call for you." He thought that it was a
prank call and he just basically hung up
on him.
So he goes to Albuquerque, the next stop
on his book tour, he goes into the radio
station, same thing happens, same voice
and he's like, "Okay, this is a lot a
lot of effort to put in for Just a
Hoax." So he started talking to the guy
and they said, um, you know, if you're
interested, come and meet, you know, at
this certain time. And so that's when he
met, uh, I think the first meeting he
had was with Dodie and the guy known as
he called Falcon.
um which was apparently was a old a
retired CIA um agent called Harry
Rositzki
who has since passed away. Um and I
think it was like
Do we know anything about him? Rositzki.
Yeah. You go look him up and you will
know more than I do because a lot of
stuff has come out about him since I
first um
what's come out
um who he was uh what he worked on. His
specialty was Soviet operations. He had
he had he'd come out of um OSS,
okay,
in World War II. And um I think he'd
worked with Reinhardt Galen and some of
Nazis afterwards to to set up
intelligence networks in Europe because
because of the Russians and he'd also,
you know, he'd also been in Afghanistan,
I think, and it was um monitoring Soviet
radio transmissions there. He did a lot,
he was basically was their one of their
Soviet experts. And so in the late 70s,
early 80s when this when uh the period
we're talking about, they pulled him out
of retirement
to help run this unofficial
operation against the Russians and
Chinese or whoever else
and um they needed somebody from the UFO
like research community as kind of a
contact. So they approached I think a
bunch of different people and a few of
them said yes and Bill was one of them.
Do we have any sense of what Dodie had?
So Dod's obviously gonna play this sort
of villain role in this whole story. Uh,
you know, he's the main kind of, you
know, Air Force office of special
investigations agent who enters
Benowitz's life and,
you know, plants all sorts of BS and and
and kind of screws with him mentally.
Um, do we know anything about his
history up until that point?
Who do?
Yeah.
I don't know too much about it. All I
know is what he said and it's like
[laughter]
what am I going to do with what he said?
He said he was a guard at Area 51. I
have no idea.
It's hard to take that at face value.
Well, I he also said I think his father
worked at Area 51. Are you familiar with
that history? Dolan told me that.
Richard Dolan.
Yeah, I think maybe. Yeah. Well, Dolan
will probably know.
Yeah.
Um
I don't think he ever mentioned that,
but you know, he could he would probably
take stories like that and kind of, you
know, mix and match them. Another
interesting data point on Dodie, I know
very little about him before the Benowit
story, but he shows up at Mario Woods's
case. So, Mario Woods is at Ellsworth
Air Force Base in South Dakota in 1977.
Uh he's a missile security officer and
he not only sees a craft.
I see this light off to my east.
He claims that these beings walked up to
him, he then gets a hypnotic regression
and he discusses being inside of a
craft. wakes up 10 miles away. Uh, you
know, and it's I think it's it's it's
dawn, so like hour it was like the whole
night had elapsed. Yeah. And his his
partner, Michael Johnson's in a
catatonic state.
I even tried pulling his hand off that
steering wheel.
And uh he has no idea what's happened to
him. And he then is debriefed by, you
know, a slew of official, you know,
people at Ellsworth Air Force Base. And
one of the guys is Rick Dodie. Next to
him was this new OSI guy named Rick
Dodie. [snorts]
[laughter]
Interesting.
Yeah, because the first time I saw him
was on Ancient Aliens and I said, I know
that guy. He was at my debrief.
So that's kind of interesting as well.
What year was that? 77. A year or two
before.
Yeah. Well, maybe if if true, that's
probably why Dodie was tracked into
this, right?
Because I think he has an interest in
the UFO subject just like we all do.
It's just that part of his job was to
mess with people concerning it.
Totally.
Which he enjoyed.
The weird part is is like there's
Mario's is one of the strongest cases.
You know, I'm I'm like you. I think a
lot of UFO stuff is is [__] but
Mario's to me, I've spent a lot of time
with the guy. It just pattern matches to
one of these nuclear cases where like
clearly there is um an overwhelming
nuclear pattern that goes above and
beyond in my opinion, the ability for
humans to coordinate. Mhm.
Um, so it's interesting that Dodie was
probably part of a debrief around a real
case. Yeah.
And then is also involved in this sort
of asserting himself as, you know, a
counter intel guy in this other case.
Yeah. Well, maybe when that stuff came
up, they're like, well, either he said
something or this guy knows, you know,
this is just speculation. Yeah. And
Rositzky apparently handpicked all these
people to be part of this operation. And
I asked uh Moore about it once and he
said, "Well, think of it as a giant."
Because what he said was the Benowitz
thing was one cog in a giant wheel
connected to a bunch of other giant
wheels that you would never notice. And
the only reason it's noticed is because
it's UFO people have kind of made it
into
a big a big story. Not that it isn't,
but you know, there are a lot of other
parts of this counter intel that was
going on in the late 70s, early 80s
before the Berlin Wall fell and all that
that um people don't know about. The
only reason this came out is because it
had to do with UFOs. So people are
interested in that subject obviously,
but um what he said, the other thing he
said to me later was imagine the
Benowitz operation as a 24-hour long
stage play.
Yeah. It's like you
and Benowitz is five minutes in one
scene. Not even five minutes. That's how
much of the entire cuz uh when pe UFO
people uh and researchers etc hear about
this, they're like, "Oh my god, it's so
important." It's like it was a tiny
little piece in a big wheel that was
working with a lot of other things to
like here's one more way we can, you
know, uh uh mess with and and uh um vet
out um Soviet uh assets.
Mhm.
And that's what he was using it for. I
don't think Rositzki gave less of a crap
about UFOs. All he cared about is what
he could do with it. It's another thing
I had put on a t-shirt. You what? Um,
UFOs are are a Swiss Army knife for
intelligence. They can use them for
anything.
Yeah, we were just talking earlier that
shock test
and you could insert UFO. Like I find
this interesting with like the JFK
assassination.
If you were a counter intel agent, you
would say that the JFK assassination was
only, you know, it was only UFOs. Like
say you wanted to detract from the fact
Yeah. that it was, you know, nuclear,
you know, that that JFK wanted to defang
the American nuclear arsenal or that he
just get rid of the CIA and so they
retaliating or whatever.
You throw people down the trail with
this thing UFOs and then it's you can
track the people that talk about it with
respect to UFOs. UFOs are sort of a
proxy for somebody's kind of irreverence
towards, you know, earthly authorities
or something and open-mindedness
generally. You know, you can track uh
Soviet spies or traders or whatever.
take something that people have a really
strong emotional attachment to, but no
way to prove any of it. And that's a big
ass wrench in the Oh, yeah. in the in
the toolbox. Totally. Because if you're
emotionally attached to something, you
can be led around by the nose. So, um,
sometimes when people get excited, it's
like, detach your your your emotions
from this because you're not going to
see the bigger picture if you just if
you're just looking at this thing. Well,
not only that, you're making yourself
susceptible to counter intelligence.
Exactly. I mean, it just it just it
snowballs, you know?
Totally.
This episode is sponsored by one of my
new favorite products, ODO. This is one
of the coolest internet products I've
seen lately. It allows you to start a
full scale business from your laptop.
It's not just a website builder or a
CRM. It's a full suite of tools that all
seamlessly integrate and speak to one
another. ODU gives you everything in one
connected platform. sales, inventory,
accounting, e-commerce, whatever you
need, it works together out of the box.
So whether you're selling a physical
product, launching a media company like
me, running a nonprofit, or scaling a
startup, it's all you need in one simple
system. What I like is their philosophy.
Unity makes creative strength. It's true
in systems and it's true in teams. ODU
helps simplify the chaos of running
something complex so your creative focus
stays sharp. It's really a beautiful and
simple product. So, act on the idea you
have. Don't keep putting it off. You can
start with just one app and it's
literally free to try. There's no
downside. If you want to upgrade later,
the service will scale with your needs.
Head to odo.com to get started. That's
odo pronounced odo. And follow
odo.official
on Instagram or odo on Tik Tok. Now,
back to today's episode. So, okay,
before we get into the kind of the meta
analysis of how these mechanics work,
let's talk about the details. So, Moore
is basically his ascendancy is being
used against him. We're going to give
you secret info if you comply with us.
Yeah.
And then at what point does Moore
interact with Benowitz? And at what
point does Dodie directly interact with
Benowitz? I think oh Mo interacted with
him just becau through appro and it was
very soon I think after uh he was
contacted because he said that oh
there's another part of the story the
reason they met with him after that
phone call
um is he was one of the few because they
sent that letter out to different people
that supposed letter from somebody in
the military that had seen a UFO at
close range
and he was one of the few that said this
is BS
um before he met with uh uh Rositzki and
Dodie, they gave him one more test. They
gave him a memo showing that there was
some sort of a UFO sighting, I guess, in
central or southern New Mexico
in the late 40s or early 50s
and it was um I believe it was called it
was part of a project called Silver Sky
because the memo was called the Silver
Sky memo. He went and checked it out and
found out that was BS too. Mhm.
So he like that when they finally talked
to him, they said, "You're the only
person that just you actually went out
and found out that this stuff was
false." And they kind of for some reason
they wanted somebody who was um had an
investigative mind like could kind of
dig out whether something was BS or not
or with a false flag or not or whatever
you want to call it.
And um that's why they picked him.
I think Bill Moore was a pretty decent
UFO investigator. Like if you read the
Philadelphia experiment, you know, I
don't know, it's I haven't corroborated
whether all of the details that he
discusses are right. And I have reason
to believe there's a lot of counter
intelligence around the Philadelphia
experiment. This is again this case
in the uh 1942
uh where, you know, a a ship was rumored
to be zapped from a Philadelphia Navy
port to Norfol, Virginia.
Yeah. Time travel whatever.
Time travel. Thomas Town.
There's a movie made of it. There's a
movie was in it
and there rumors that the the sailors in
the ship were were were fused to the
hull and you had heard all these screams
and then
you have this guy coming out later
saying he was a time traveler as a
result of
Carlos Aende.
Carlos Aende is the um guy who leaked
the story to Morris Jessup who was a
pseudonym. The real guy's name was Carl
Allen who was a sea a merchant marine. A
Navy merchant marine.
Yeah. The Carl Soende. Yeah. And so
anyway, interesting story. And Bill
Moore writes about this whole story in
like I think a pretty, you know,
hard-headed, you know, maybe get some
things wrong, but like he's a he's a
good researcher. He's not I don't think
he's a bad researcher. So, but he he
seems to lend a lot of credibility to
the fact that Rositzki and uh Dodie can
give him secret information. So, he's
going to comply
or well, at least somebody that Rositzki
knows is going to hand him dossas of
stuff.
He had to go one time he was told in the
middle of this he said go to this hotel
room in upstate New York. There will be
somebody there to meet you. They just
gave him an envelope with all these old
documents in it and said you got 20
minutes.
Yep.
Goes what can I do? And they said
anything you want. You just can't keep
the documents.
So he had a 35mm camera. He just
curriedly took pictures of all of them.
Whoa.
And this happened more than once in in
various forms.
Yeah.
And I and that was the exchange for
keeping tabs on people and saying what's
this person doing? What are they
thinking? Um, as he told me later, and
actually he told other people,
none of them ever really amounted to
anything. The MJ12 stuff, the Eisenhower
briefing memo,
when he first released the report on
them in this book called the MJ12
papers, the thing actually said
compelling but not conclusive. That's
all it said. And then after a few years,
he said, I don't think
I don't think almost anything I was
given was actually true 100% UFO
information.
Yeah.
It was all either around it or
completely made up.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah.
And he said he kind of felt [laughter]
he kind of felt used and cheated.
Sure. How does Moore and Dodie proceed
to trick Benowitz into believing he is
detecting more than he is when it comes
to alien signals and UFOs.
People are going to argue with me, but
as I recall it and I wrote,
Benowitz was his own worst enemy. The
only problem was he had people around
him not contradicting him and
encouraging him and then occasionally
saying something. The only thing I know
that Bill Moore did was he was told to
give um Benowitz a document called the
Aquarius document or memo or something
like that and it said it was there was a
little different pieces of UFO like um
examinations of of footage like this
looks good, this doesn't. apparently
from some government uh source and
one of Benowitz's or two of Benowitz's
films are mentioned in that. I know that
because you look at it and you go, "Oh,
that's it says I think Albuquerque or
Kirtland or something like that." But
there are analysis analyses of his films
in part and um they were encouraging.
It's like well this is unidentified. We
don't know what it is. Um but uh he was
more was told to give that to Benowitz.
He said hand him this document. As far
as I know and or he never admitted it to
me. He never actually went to Paul and
said Paul Benoitz and said look into
this. This is important. This was leaked
to me. He was basically there just to
kind of monitor him as far as I know.
But Paul Bennins was so excited about
what he was seeing and so convinced of
whatever he thought became reality that
it was really easy just to mislead him
with a little push here and there. Well,
that sounds interesting, Paul. Why don't
you look into that a little further
instead of [laughter]
don't worry about that. That's not part
of anything that everything was
encouraged as long as it pushed him away
from any secret um um um projects or
information. And you see Benowitz start
to get more and more fervent in his
interest and he's doing flights around
Archeletta Mesa where he thinks maybe
there's some other
they took him up there and showed it to
him.
Uhhuh.
Because they wanted him to pay attention
to that rather than to Kirtland anymore.
It's like let's just draw his attention
away from there
and to in furtherance of that and you
know Dodie told me this I think Moore
told me this and then a few people
around the area around the Hickory
Apache um area. Paul was very excited
when he told him that the Air Force had
taken him in a helicopter from Kirtland,
flown flown him up to northwestern New
Mexico um to the Archeletta Mesa, which
is on the Hickory Apache reservation and
showed him stuff saying, "Look, we think
there's something going on here." They
actually put jeeps and like water tanks
and all kind of stuff in this place as
props so he would be concentrating on
that. The funny thing is that apparently
there was some sort of crash up there
within that period after that. So there
it was a stealth fighter or maybe it was
a drone or something that definitely
crashed there, but he did he never took
pictures of it close enough where you
could tell what it was. Oh no, he got up
there after they'd cleaned it up. So you
see like this burned area and Gabe said
they went up there and found, you know,
broken up brush and evidence that
something had been picked up and a pen
that said US government property on it.
So something happened there that was
very important and maybe they just
thought, you know what, this is even
better because now he's really going to
concentrate up there. And he made
drawings of what he thought he saw. And
um I included those in the book and they
kind of morphed depending on what he was
thinking at the time. He had like one
version of it and then he said it was a
a craft that the aliens had gave given
to the United States government and the
government was flying it and they didn't
know how to do it and it crashed. Mhm.
And [clears throat] so it just it gets
more and more Byzantine and complicated
and you know and his paranoia builds and
is there a good prosaic explanation for
the orbs that he initially saw going
over that mountain next to Kirtland or
the only thing I can think of and based
on what I was heard and on Chris
Lambrite's book um exes descending it
was some sort of project either with
drones or some sort of unconventional
flying objects that that had some sort
of glow to them. Whether you can ascribe
that to having like a lighter than air
with a light in it or, you know, Chinese
lantern type thing or some kind of weird
energy or something like that, I don't
know. But they seemed apparently they
seemed solid
and they didn't move like airplanes and
they they tested them at night.
So, how was he detecting any sort of
signals to begin with coming out of the
base? because he was an electronics
engineer
and he built things to pick up um uh I
guess a wide range of uh uh um radio
signals probably centered on the
military bands of of signals not just
you know like FM or AM or shortwave or
anything
and he built an antenna array. He had
all these machines for uh for uh
analyzing the signal. He built all this
from scratch. Nobody had any of his
stuff or he juryrigged some of the stuff
from his lab, but he built apparently a
setup and started listening to
transmissions coming from the base,
which is a huge problem if you're trying
to be a security person at Kirtland. You
know, people shouldn't even be listening
to this, much less inventing machines
and and equipment to listen to it in the
first place because if he's doing it,
other people can do it. So, that's what
they were worried about. But he thought
he could pick up, as far as I remember,
he thought he could pick up
transmissions um that aliens were were
were beaming either to each other or to
the military or something.
And why did he think whatever he was
picking up was alien?
Because it didn't comport with anything
he could could uh conceptualize.
So just the fact that it was kind of
anomalous. There was no like actual
message. might have been from what I've
heard and what I've assumed which might
be wrong is it was uh it was telemetry
for missile guidance or something like
that. It was micro bursts.
Okay.
So, you know, they sounded like
and he would slow them down.
Sure.
And he thought he was hearing patterns
in it and saying these are the aliens
doing this
and um he was using this uh this setup
and Gabe told me about it. He said he
saw that setup, but he also saw the
setup apparently after J. Allen Heinik
showed up. So what Bill told me, and of
course everybody's like, "Well, he's
telling you this because it's
disinformation. Heck wouldn't do such a
thing." Um,
sometime I believe in the early8 or so,
maybe even earlier 8081, something like
that,
J. Alan Heinik showed up at Paul's door
with a computer, an entirely built
alreadymade computer and said, "This
will help you with the signals
and Bill told me that uh since Heinik
knew that Bill was doing some of this
spy stuff somehow,
yeah,
they went to or he told him enough that
Heinneck kind of got it because, you
know, Heinik had been employed by the
Air For Air Force since the 1960s and
apparently in the early 80s he was still
on the payroll. He just wasn't doing
very much."
Yeah. But it sounds like he was
complicit in this whole thing where
Yeah, but I think that he didn't know
what was on the computer. Otherwise, he
might he had a conscience. He might have
said, "I don't want to do this."
Okay. So, okay. So, they give him the
computer. Benowitz then starts to pick
up even more on this computer.
So, at some point, somebody at the base
or at one, you know, any number of uh
intelligence agencies that were ba that
had presence there to um make sure that
the security was tight. um decided, why
don't we just give him a computer with
stuff on it and let him pick it up and
then have it, you know, because he
thought the Air Force was cooperating
with him, like he was bringing them
information they needed. He was, but not
the kind that he thought.
So, he thought he was doing sort of
vital work, security work to decipher
these alien signals.
They said, you know, we're interested in
what you're doing, Paul. Please keep
talking to us. Tell us what you're
doing. It's important for national
security or whatever. And he's like, oh,
okay. But I think even more explicitly
he picks up certain messages that he
interprets as like we've given the US
eight crafts or so like specific things.
Yeah. He starts decoding things and the
decodings are basically based on his
paridolia about what should be coming
out of those messages.
Paridia by the way for the audience is
seeing a pattern where it doesn't exist
which is a human tendency.
Yeah. Yeah.
It's it's an evolutionary thing. You got
to see patterns so you can survive. Yes.
Um, so but it does us a disservice when
it's things like this because you can
make patterns out of stuff that don't
exist. So that's what he was doing.
As you know, I'm always on the hunt for
things that help me stay sharp, focused,
and full of energy while I'm diving into
life's mysteries and making this show
happen. And I've got to say, Mudwater
has completely transformed my mornings.
Back in the day, I used to struggle with
that post coffee crash. And let's not
even get into the caffeine jitters.
Mudwater gave me the smooth, steady
energy I was missing. It's packed with
functional mushrooms like lion's mane,
chaga, and rayi, plus turmeric and
cacao, all working together to keep me
focused, calm, and grounded. Honestly,
it's like coffee went on a yoga retreat
and came back zen. What I love most is
that it's not just about replacing
coffee. It's a whole new ritual. It's a
simple, nourishing way to start the day.
And I actually look forward to it every
morning. Every ingredient is USDA
certified organic, vegan, non-GMO, and
there's zero sugar. It's energy that
doesn't mess with your sleep or make you
question your life choices at 3:00 a.m.
Ready to make the switch to cleaner
energy? Head to mudwater.com,
that's mudwt.com,
and grab your starter kit today. Right
now, our listeners get an exclusive deal
up to 43% off your entire order, plus
free shipping and a free rechargeable
frother when you use code Jesse. That's
right, up to 43% off with code Jesse at
mud wtr.com.
After your purchase, they'll ask you how
you found them. Please show your support
and let them know we sent you. Keep your
energy natural and refreshing all year
long with mud water because life's too
short for anything less than clean,
delicious energy.
Did he get any other messages? So,
something about possibly eat crafts that
the US had retrieved.
I'm not sure if the stuff that I put in
there uh in the book has deciphered uh
code.
Okay.
I'm not sure if that's before or after
the computer.
Okay.
It might be after because it seems
really detailed.
Okay. So, what what else did he receive
generally? just that there were aliens
from another planet. They were here.
They were trying to establish a base.
They needed Earth women or something. It
sounds like a science fiction movie.
Yeah.
To propagate their race. Their planet
was dying. Um
Wow.
All this stuff. And that they were at
some point going to take over. And so
that's what really scared him.
And I think he was saying that before
and this computer just basically said,
"Okay, let's take what he's saying and
just crank it up."
And across the street there maybe are
some NSA officials.
Yes, maybe that happened. I mean that's
I the person that told me that was was
was Bill.
Okay.
And since he's my friend I trust him. I
People say this about Bill. It's like
why do you trust him? It's like I've
never found him to be lying to me ever.
I've known him for what 35 years or
more.
Never lied to me once. If anything, his
ability to off himself at muon and say
that he was complicit in wrongdoing is
probably a maybe a
some sort of indicator that you should
trust him. Also, uh I don't know why he
would make that up. I mean, that seems
if if you were uh to uh you know, incept
signals into a mainframe computer, the
NSA would be the ones to to to do that.
I mean, that that there's signals
intelligence. That's what they do.
Yeah. Exactly. So somebody programmed it
for him. Heck brought it to the door. He
hooked it up and then started
immediately seeing these messages. He
also saw pictures.
He thought he he thought he was looking
into the alien planet into the future
and past of the earth. He he had a
little oscilloscope or at least a CRT.
Oh my god.
Analog CRT with, you know, with the
scans. And
what is CRT?
Uh cathode ray tube.
Okay.
Like old TV screens.
Yeah. Got it. Got it. Um, and somebody
had just put this video in there for
him. Gabe told me he went over there and
saw some of it. He said they were
dinosaurs and like old like Roman
battles and stuff, but they were
probably from old movies,
but they were all garbled and weird. And
Gabe said he saw this, so somebody was
beaming this junk at him.
Oh man. And apparently they set up
across the street and to um send these
signals into the computer that would be
decoded in the way the computer was
designed to decode them. And he thought
it was coming from inside the base cuz I
think they probably just sent him at the
same frequency.
And then he starts to kind of lose his
mind. Is that is that right? Or
Yeah. As things get worse, um he starts
losing sleep. He thinks there's going to
be some sort of alien invasion. the
woman MNA Hansen that she he had coming
to his house in the 80s talking about
she was talking about being abducted and
going to this underground facility which
really that stuff is I don't know if
it's true or not but it's formed so much
of the UFO lore afterward. Um so a lot
of stuff happening at the time that Paul
was dealing with just became part of the
UFO lore and yes there's independent
people that have said that this happened
to them. I don't know where they get
that information. Maybe it's been, you
know, disinfo beamed at them, you know,
said to them, too. I don't know.
Yeah.
But a lot of the a lot of the tropes
kind of started back then. He said
there, you know, there was an alien base
underground at the Archeletta Mesa. He
went there with a camera and took
pictures
of, he said, of things going in and out
of the mountain, but they basically
they're just like blurs.
Whoa.
And it could be something, but it also
be camera, you know, artifacts. Who
knows? Nothing I've seen of the pictures
he took up of the Archeletta Mesa area
really amount to. There's no like clear
like Billy Meyer looking picture.
Um,
but you know, a couple of the things he
videos he took in at Kirtland show,
there's one of them that looks like a
saucer kind of like this. And there's a
there's a there's a PSA Pacific
Southwest Airlines plane flying behind
it. So, who knows what that thing was,
but as nobody came in and said, "Paul,
stop." You know, Jesus. Um, Bill said he
tried. M
he did give him that Aquarius document
and it actually mentions access only to
MJ12 which is the first time anybody
said anything about MJ12 was in this
fake document the Aquarius document.
Wow.
And it says quote MJ Telve
unquote.
Whoa.
Yeah. So
somebody was trying to plant that in the
in the culture then too like in you know
1981 or whenever he got this uh
um document but Bill was told to give
him this this only documented thing that
document at least by Bill where he said
they told me to do this and they told me
if I didn't give him that thing that the
deal was off and he read it. He knew
what it was. He's like this is BS.
Um, so he went to Paul's office
and he was trained. They gave him spy
training, Bill.
They had him doing other stuff, too.
They had him like, you know, passing
mail through and doing, you know, stuff
with Soviet spies.
Yeah.
On our side, spies in the Soviet Union,
they would send postcards and you'd have
to like read them on a telephone call.
Exactly. And then take them to another
post office and mail it from that post
office to the next post office. Spy
stuff.
But he said that um he they finally
because he hesitated. It's like I I I
don't know if I want to do this. He said
it was like you know you're a kid and
they tell the mafia says why don't you
stand on the corner and look tell me if
this car comes by and then the next week
you're burying bodies you know kind of
thing. It wasn't that bad but he's like
kind of he kind of just gets wormed into
this y
this uh uh structure this this this
intelligence structure.
So he said that he took the the finally
he said okay you know I'm going to give
it to Paul. He goes down to his office,
tells you, "Meet me at your office at a
certain time." And he takes him, he
says, "Get a radio." And they go in the
the the supply closet, he said. And he
turned the radio up. And he gave him the
thing and said, "I was told to give this
to you. Take it with a grain of salt."
And he said, as far as he knew, Paul
never said anything about it. And he
just put it in his in his safe at at
work.
So he did this with Paul. Paul took it,
didn't say anything about it, but it
certainly affected his mindset and his
thinking. It's like, "Oh my god, I'm I'm
important. They're paying attention to
me. I'm getting the secret information."
What happened was his family got worried
about him. They were like, "Geez, you
know, he's not doing his work. He's
staying up all the time. He's chain
smoking. Like he'd smoke a whole pack of
cigarettes over lunch while Bill talked
to him. He's like, Paul, it's like
Yeah. Yeah. you know, everybody was
telling him to calm down while wa
knowing what was causing what was going
on. They're like,
you know, Dodie said he even told him.
Yeah.
But um he couldn't he couldn't control,
you know, I don't know if you've ever
been in a paranoid state where just
everything makes sense. Everything
that's is arrayed against you. Every
conversation you hear, William Burroughs
talks about this. It's a great lecture.
He talked about this. But
yeah, I think um in UFO world, you can
get into this sort of solopcyistic
mindset where you go, oh, this is all an
illusion or whatever if there are other
beings and I mean it becomes this
you're living in the Da Vinci Code or
something and
Yeah, exactly. And he and he couldn't
get out of that loop and his family is
just like, oh my god. So they actually
put him in a mental health facility for
like a month or so because there's these
I've heard people still say he died in a
mental institution or he killed himself.
was like, "No, his family was worried
about him. They put him in a me like a
mental health facility for like a month
or two till he calmed down." And when he
came out of it, he was still interested
in the stuff, but it wasn't running his
life.
That's good.
And then I think he realized probably
from talking to his family and maybe
even Bill, it's like just, you know, if
you want don't want to go to an early
grave, please relax.
Yep.
And Dodie
then comes out and admits I befriended
Paul that way. was tasked to do that.
Uh, and I sent him down the wrong path
and I would continuously feed him
passage material. Passage material is
classic kind of spook, you know. Uh,
I don't know if he did or not, but I
wouldn't put it past him. I don't I
don't know if Bill was privy to that or
anybody I talked to was. And
Dodie didn't tell me that.
Uhhuh.
Maybe because he didn't want to say that
at the
I just mean passage material, not in
terms of documentation. I just mean like
wrong information.
Oh, yeah. I mean, he could have done
that anytime Paul said, like I said
before, Paul would say, "This is
happening. Don't think,
yeah, you know what? I have indication
that that's happening. Maybe you should
check it out." Right. I mean, that kind
of thing. And it just kind of builds on
itself.
Yeah. And and John Lear, who's obviously
implicated in the Bob Lazar story and
sort of, you know, says all sorts of
insane things around this time.
Yeah. He worked for Air America and all
this stuff. So, I think John Leer
Benowitz part two because he
communicated with Benowitz after this,
right? So yeah, that's the interesting
thing is in some ways John Leer seems
like he was fed maybe a ton of
disinformation, but he also meets with
Benowitz. Are you familiar with this?
Did you know that? Yeah.
And then Benit multiple times until
Benowitz got mad at him and said he
didn't want to talk to him,
right? Yeah.
I can't remember what the breakup was
about, but yeah, Ben uh he met with
Benowitz a few times and just like asked
him questions and I
Do you think John Leer was subject to
the same disinfo as Benowitz or do you
think he was tasked with
both?
Okay. you know, not because I could sit
here and say that's what happened, but
the indications to me is is uh from his
actions
and what he you know what I was told
that when I was told he was met with
Benowitz and how is and how Bennett
reacted to him and also the fact that um
I think somebody asked uh Lear at one
point about something about uh God I
wish I knew exactly what it was. I know
who told me so I can ask them. But he
said, "Well, John, what about you know
all this stuff up at, you know, the
underground base up at at Archeletta
Mesa and the Hickory Apache and this you
this big firefight and all that." And I
don't know if it was that story, but
Leer said, "Oh yeah, I made that up."
He actually said this,
he literally says, "I made that up." to
in confidence or at least privately to
this one guy right before one of those
first congressional hearings about UFO
stuff in the I think it was the early
90s or something like that.
It was might have been one of the ones
that Greer set up. I'm not sure.
Yeah.
But yeah, I mean Lear admitted this
and because of his you know uh previous
background flying for Air America which
he touted a lot saying I was one of the
you know he's got an intelligence
background so
CIA cargo pilot.
Yeah. So he, you know, he very well may
have been tasked to check up on Benitz
and feed him more stuff after the fact.
But you're giving Jaylen Heinik the
benefit of the doubt.
Only because what I know of him is that
if he knew that's what it was, I don't
think he'd have done it.
I'm not so sure. Well, I don't know. Uh,
you know, I don't have I don't have a
ton of reason to believe. Just a guess
that my only you know I think of that
you know uh documentary UFOs past
present and future
Emgars.
Yes. Robert Emgger and Rod Serling's
doing the you know um narration.
I interviewed Bob a couple of times on
my show.
Interesting. Yeah. I'd love to talk.
He's a cool guy. I liked him.
Seems like a cool guy. Well, he it seems
like he was maybe one of the first
examples of this, you know, using UFOs
as a strategy to sort of lure people in
because he is in communications with
Norton Air Force Base and I believe he
goes there and everybody there is
talking to him about UFOs and they're
telling him that they are going to give
him uh you know the landing.
The Hollowman landing. Exactly. Al
Magguardo earlier um I think in the in
the um in the '60s.
And so he gets all excited and they say
they're going to give him footage and
they keep saying they're going to give
him footage. They're going to give him
footage and then the footage never
really appears and he's he's actually he
is shown a little he says
I think he was or is um his like one of
his partners Bob Shardell I think
something uh saw it.
Yeah. Alan Sandler another guy.
What did you see on the film? Was it
color? Was it black and white? Was it
black and white?
It was black and white.
When I saw you be a black and white
friend, but it was nothing other than
what we and said in the book, we we see
this thing, this round thing. And it
wasn't that stable. Funny part. And it
landed and a door opened and guys come
out looking like they were outer space
guys.
Yeah, it was Sandler. One of them
actually said they saw
I think even Emger says he saw it
briefly or something. And then you have
this video that ends up you have mostly
like this animation rendition in UFOs
past, present, and future that they have
to do because they don't have the real
footage.
But there's also a little bit of footage
and that footage has now been debunked
as an F4. And an F the F4 came out I
think in like 59 or something. So it was
like
right when like it was probably like not
you know well known at the time and it
was definitely flying you know around
Hollowman. And so I almost feel like the
first kind of you know roar shock test
you know uh throwing people off the
trail was that documentary and Jaylen
Heinik is obviously a big part of the
documentary. So
was Jayen Allen Heineki used in that
documentary as well? I don't know
because he was through this whole thing
he was still getting a check from the
Air Force.
That's what I'm saying. That's what I'm
saying. So I don't know.
But does that mean you know what you're
doing? Does that mean somebody tells you
everything that's going on when you're
getting a check?
I don't know. But one other data point
about Jaylen Heinik is uh you know Jacqu
Valet was like his kind of understudy
his assistant. Jacqu Valet finds this
pentacle memo
in the blue book files. Yeah.
And he goes to Jaylen Heinekick and he's
like what the [__] Because the pentacle
memo is like this whole you know Battel
Memorial Institute
secret UFO research program that is
looking at you know these hot aerial
hotspots presumably around nuclear if
you look at what was happening at the
time. Mhm.
And Jen Heinik is like, "Wait, what's
going on?" Like, "You're not allowed to
apparently you weren't allowed to
mention the Pentacle, you know, uh this
is written by a guy named Howard C.
Cross. You you weren't allowed to
mention that program in the Robertson
memo or Robertson panel, which creates a
Robertson memo, which is basically the
constitution of Blue Book. It creates
the mandate for Blue Book to kind of
explain away and rationalize, you know,
this stuff." And and then Jaylen or
Valle comes out saying, you know, I was
convinced that uh Jaylen Heinik
actually, you know, didn't know about
the Pentacle memo and this other thing,
but like I don't know. There are all
these cases where Jayen Heinik has to
like play dumb. And I'm like, I don't
know, dude. I think he might have known
a thing or two cuz he seems like a smart
guy.
Yeah.
So,
Oh, no. I don't think he was dumb. But
not being told something doesn't mean
you're dumb. It just means you don't
know it.
No, I know. But it's like, you know,
maybe three times where he could be
complicit in Oh, yeah. And I'm like, how
many other time? You know, those are
just three times that I know.
I'm pretty sure he showed up at the
computer. I'm pretty sure he gave it to
Bedawitz.
I don't know. Yeah. The crux is does he
did he know what was on the computer?
Did he know? When did when did what did
he know and when did he know it? Yeah.
So, I don't know. There's no way to find
that out. I tried to ask uh Kufos when I
was writing the book, do you have any do
any correspondence with Heinik during
this time? And they said they'd helped
me like three times and they never
responded. They probably just thought I
was a crazy person.
Yeah. Well, far be it from my eye to try
to off you know a UFO legend in Jalen
Heinneck. He's he's definitely
contributed to
no I you I'm going to heir on the on the
side of like what I'd like to think
which is basically my whole mo because
unless something convinces me that
something's one way I'm going to I'm
going to think the thing that makes me
feel better until I get contravenating
because you know it's funny because if I
don't I go down the paranoid path.
Yeah. But I view the thrust of your work
as um inconvenient truths that you are
laying out before people and I like
that. I mean, that's an interesting way.
Well, I checked up on the stuff myself.
That's why I I believe it. If I hadn't
checked up on it, if I hadn't written
Project Beta.
Yeah.
I would probably doubt it more. I
because, you know, I I didn't experience
I wouldn't been experienced what I
experienced. I talked to the people I
talked to. Yes. I don't know if I was
lied to. With Dodie, I know I was lied
to a few times. So, like
95% or more 97% of what we told he told
me is not in the book
because there's no way to tell. and the
stuff where I just got it from him and
it was relevant to the story. I said
Dodie is the only person that told me
this.
One other interesting data point is in
1982 Rick Dodie gets in touch with
another UFO researcher Linda Molton How
and she's shown a bunch of documents
around presidential you know
UFOs and aliens as well as project
garnett which involves uh accelerated
evolution of humanity with alien
intervention. Is that right? that I
don't remember.
Okay.
See, a lot of stuff I wrote about,
yeah,
more stuff has come out since then. Some
of which is accurate, some of which
isn't. And you may very well be right. I
do not know what was in those documents.
I thought it had something to do
partially with some of the cattle meal
relation stuff she was doing, but it was
a bunch of different things.
Yeah. No. Well, I believe it had both.
But, um, this is based partially.
She was very excited. I I actually
talked to Tom Adams.
Uhhuh. I think afterwards who was a
catamulation researcher and she went up
and visited them right the like a couple
days after that and she was like over
the moon. She's like, "Oh my god, I saw
all this great stuff. It's so
important." And
Right.
So she she she took the bait at the
time. I don't know what she thinks about
it now.
Yeah. Well, she was later um interviewed
in a in a documentary and she was like,
"I just don't want you to paint this.
That the whole UFO thing is BS. I was
tricked in this one instance." But the
idea that UFOs are a cover for just
prosaic technology is totally wrong. In
fact, it's the opposite. Proaic
technologies often used as a cover for
you have a it's an interesting
discussion. Yeah.
Um
it's probably both. In fact, it's
demonstrabably both.
Well, there you go. Yeah. Sort of, you
know,
that's Yeah, it's separate from the UFO
issue itself,
which, you know, I people think that
after I wrote that book, you think it's
all like military. It's like no.
Yeah. There's no way that the entire UFO
phenomenon is is military or
intelligence connected. It's just used.
Some of the UFO stuff is genuinely
anomalous. And by genuinely anomalous, I
mean not explained by prosaic
atmospheric conditions.
Oh, definitely.
And not explained by military tech,
advanced military.
Definitely. Yeah. I mean, there's
there's so many hundreds of thousands of
things that have no connection to
military anything. I agree with that
too. And I I find it frustrating that
this case that you write about so so
well
uh needs to be contended with as a uh
modality of how UFOs are used from a
counter intelligence perspective and you
need to have those that sets of goggles
on when viewing everything in the UFO
world.
But uh you can't throw the baby out with
the bath water. In some ways that's
maybe even the goal that like you you're
losing if you think the whole thing is
fake.
Yeah. Well, that's there's that belief
thing again. If you believe something so
strongly, that's all you're ever going
to see.
And so there's people there's all kinds
of opinions about it, whatever people's
beliefs are. But
um the the the Project Beta I mean I I
wrote it because
well because I made the proposal and the
publisher said, "Let's do this one."
Yeah.
You know, um Patrick Que and and Simon
and Schustster said, "Let's do this
one." I said, "Okay." Um,
but
so many different weird accusations I've
had about it. It's like, "Oh, you're
cooperating with the government." It's
like, "Yeah, no, I was trying to tell a
story." That's like saying that some
That's like saying that Vincent Boulosi
cooperated with Manson. He's just
writing a story about it. Yeah.
A very opinionated story.
But that's a weird analogy because I
think Bugliosce, who was the lead
prosecutor of the case, Yeah. and wrote
Helter Skelter.
Okay.
Rivera was was was cooperating with
Madson. There you go. They had that
weird interview online. That's fine. On
TV because the Bugliosce thing, like if
you read like Chaos by Tom O'Neal,
you kind of are like Bugliosi had some
ulterior motive with the whole thing.
Oh, he wrote Did he write a He wrote a
book about the Kennedy assassination
that said that Oswald did it and there's
no way around that. And
that's right. So, for your sake, I want
I just want you to be clear. No ulterior
motive for you.
Yeah. Yeah.
No, not for me. I Okay. What am I
saying? It's if you report on anything,
it means that you agree with it or
disagree with it. It's like, no, I don't
agree or disagree with what I put in the
book. I think I think a lot of stuff
that happened was absolutely morally
wrong and shouldn't have happened.
Yeah, of course you're documented.
But I'm not going to put that in the
book or say anything about it. I've I've
had people like at convent when I first
started doing this and lecturing about
it like why don't you tell you know why
didn't you just say how wrong it was?
It's like what am I supposed to do? Tell
you what your what was moral and is not?
I think you got a better sense of what's
right and wrong than you know I would
give you I could that I would be
assuming if I didn't I mean I'm just you
should know as much of the facts as you
can and you make up your own decisions
based on that.
I think you're also in UFO world you're
kind of setting yourself up for failure
if you picize everything because you're
setting yourself up as the arbiter of
right and wrong and truth and untruth
and then you're going to get stuff
wrong. you're you're dealing with the
most speculative stuff. So, there were
times where I've I've been tempted to
make videos like the most steel manning
I've done are like, you know, it's like
I did this piece on Harold Malmgrren and
I'm probably going to come up with like
a rebuttal on, you know, certain because
there was that big D Johnson thing about
it,
which I'm happy to address now. Um, uh,
I think it's
excruciatingly obvious that Harold
Ngrren was CIA. Yeah. Uh, and you know,
he says, "My agency" a bunch of times,
and his daughter goes, "The State
Department." And he's holding Paul
Melon's walking stick, which he didn't
buy at a yard sale. Yeah. And you know,
uh, uh, uh, so Paul Melon is one of the
founders of the CIA. He says Tom Farmer
is his best friend, the general counsel
of the CIA. Yeah.
Uh, he's this like spooky trade
representative in all these cases. Uh,
he's he he was helping formulate the
presidential daily briefing. Yeah. So
the guy with CIA, you can't
a lot of debunking is based on the most
likely thing, especially with UFOs.
Let's the most likely thing is a prosaic
explanation. So that's the explanation
and we're going to do anything we can to
work yourself towards that prosaic
explanation because that that's the you
work from a point of view rather than
from a well I've seen
which UFO people are completely guilty
of.
I've seen his diary and I don't think
it's a fake diary and Richard Bissell is
all over it. Richard Bissell is the
founder of Area 51 and the guy who he
claimed to get briefed on other world
technologies from
and he's you know even uh Dean Johnson
admits that he's in his phone book or
whatever. So there there's connectivity
there. He says in a 2024 interview
before me I was at the IDA but that was
a cover for my real work for the joint
chiefs in the Pentagon. No. So all I'm
saying is we everybody in the audience
believes that, you know, probably the
CIA killed JFK. And if you really
connect the dots, who who called the
shots there? It was Alan Bellis at the
Brown Brothers Haramman. So you're
talking about this time where you can't
just do a foyer from the FBI and know
that if the person who you know uh uh
got their Q clearance through the CIA,
you you have no idea if they have their
Q clearance. That's ridiculous. So, I
just think that plus like a few
anecdotes about, you know, certain
people not being aware of him or
whatever is insane as a as a sort of
like whole debunk. And then there were a
lot of I thought felt like
what I know of it, it sounds like the
the he did the I think he and a few
other people tried. No, it wasn't him,
but the Travis Walton case.
Yeah.
And there and they talk about this fire
tower and it's like it was right next to
the road. It's like, no, it's not. It's
over a hill. You think they're so stupid
they don't know what a fire tower is?
You know, just stuff like that. Not I'm
not saying the whole story is true
because of that. I'm not either. The the
debunk is so ridiculous on the face of
it. Like I got I one of my friends
stopped talking to me because I said get
better evidence if you're going to
debunk.
No, it's true. Like I I actually I like
debunks. I like skepticism. It's it's
not like a
Oh, I don't I don't not want to see a
debunk. I want to see a well done one
which takes
as much as you know not everything but
takes as much into account as you can
and and answers all the different data
points.
I agree. No, it's like um Kendrick and
Drake you know disc disses back and
forth get except it's great if you do
the debunk and then I'll do the debunk
of the debunk and we'll get better and
we'll get to the truth and if you win
fantastic because we're getting close to
the truth. So, I think it's all it's all
good and it's all love, but um
yeah, it's a bad it's not a good debunk
in this case. It's just not. Um and then
there are issues with the you know,
Blueg guild triple prime. I think
according to Jeffrey Krookshank, who I'm
in touch with, um who's analyzed this
stuff really deeply, apparently
Johnson's actually kind of really
scared. He realized he got a lot wrong
when it came to that the booster
trajectory could not have, you know, it
wasn't at all near the plume. And then
it's funny, you have disagreements
between the debunkers now. Um, where my
buddy Merrick von Randenamp, who I think
is is great, but I think he's wrong in
this case, said it was the
[clears throat] instrumentation pod, and
Deian Johnson's like, "No, it's not the
instrumentation pod, it's the booster."
And then Jeff Krugshank shows that it's
not the booster or the instrumentation
pod. So, I think like a dog with a bone
until, you know, it's until it's obvious
that it's they don't have it anymore.
That's right. So, anyways, all of that
to say, I could be wrong. I am not, you
know, I'm not the arbiter of truth. I'm
covering things. I do feel a little more
inclined to defend a guy who just died,
who's 89 years old, who to me, you know,
this is probably the softest, most
qualitative point I'll make, but just
pattern matches to a great statesman who
really helped the US in an earnest way
over uh decades and was kind of a quiet
operator. Yeah. Uh so, uh that's that's
all I'll say on that. But
I see an an analogy of how I feel about
Bill Moore. It's like I know him. I know
his motivations. I know his, you know,
political stance. I know his moral code.
And all of it fits with what he said.
Yeah.
And it also fits with how how upset he
gets with people that get it all wrong
and then haven't been through it.
Well, I empathize for that with that or
sympathize. I you know, and I'll I'll
even say this now. I I would bet that
or I'm a horrible dupe.
No. Sure. [laughter] Well, I I would say
I I'll bet I would bet that in the
future I will have to retract a thing
that I cover. Of course. I mean, you are
dealing with the most speculative topic
on the planet. I mean,
I have to So, it's like I I will get
stuff be willing to be wrong.
I guarantee I will get stuff wrong.
That's the only guarantee. And then like
if I get stuff right then it's like the
most important stuff ever because it's
like so uncorrelated with the consensus
reality that you know you're
contributing in this exciting way. So
I I think that's the way you have to
view everything. You can't take yourself
too seriously and attach your ego to any
of this stuff.
Yeah, that's the problem. I mean it's
really hard to detach your ego from
whatever opinion or research you've
done.
So um getting back to the chord story.
So, so, so, so Rick Dodie then comes out
after this whole saga
and he says that I am now on the side of
the truth and you see him on, you know,
UFO Twitter or whatever and you see him,
you know, getting interviewed on Gaia
and, you know, saying we have this many
alien races and these were these crashes
that really happened.
They see these extraterrestrials, these
4 and 1/2t tall graycoled entities. He
even recently said that Lou Alzando was
part of Space Force disinformation or
something and so he's going after some
of the other, you know, whistleblowers
um in UFO world. What's up with Rick
Dodie now? And is he at all trustworthy?
The first chapter of that book that I
gave you, it defies language. The title
is the chap of the chapter is you play
the game or you get nothing. M and I
believe and what that means is
you can be paranoid that somebody's
going to tell you BS or disinfo or lead
you down a path or whatever, but if
you're not in the game playing, you
know, if you're not sitting at the table
playing cards with people that are just
handing you bad cards all the time and
occasionally a nice one, you'll never
get anything. So,
and I think that applies to Dodie maybe
a little less now than it used to
because I think less of what he says is
either true, relevant, or whatever. And
I think that's mainly because
he likes messing with people. Um, that's
his personality. He's basically he's,
you know, he's a troll. He likes it. He
likes messing I mean, as far as I can
tell, he probably won't want to talk to
me again after this. He he made a he
made a statement a few years ago and he
never wanted to talk to me again.
Wow. because I said something about the
Serpo thing where apparently there was
some exchange with some other planet in
some other star system.
It was a document leak. Uh
um it was more like an info leak that
was coming through a couple sources on
the internet.
Uhhuh. And it involves like um hydrogen
isotopes or something and exotic
propulsion and some spooky science and
that I'm not sure of. All I remember was
it was basically was like the the last
scene in Close Encounters where a bunch
of people from the Earth go to another
planet and then some of the aliens come
here. So the Serpo thing was planet
Serpo sent a bunch of aliens here and we
sent a bunch of humans to their star
system in an exchange in the 1970s
sometime.
Do you think Do you think any of this is
Have you heard of Cicada 3301?
No.
It's okay. So, it's this weird like
online scavenger hunt puzzle that
involved complex mathematics that was
presented in 2014. And I'm going to
screw up some of the details, but like
very high level, I think it involved
like you had to solve it, you needed a
serious math, you know, aptitude.
Yeah.
And a lot of people think that the whole
puzzle was set up by the NSA or CIA and
it was like a recruitment tool. Yeah.
Do you think some of this stuff that's
coming out through Dodie or other people
is some sort of initiation path or do
you think it is all passage material to
catch bad actors or roar shock test to
test people's belief structures or
I don't think it's so much that anymore.
It's more like
when I first saw that article in 2017,
the New York Times article, the Kane
Blumenthal thing. Yeah,
with Alzando in it.
The first thing I thought was
what new project are they trying to
um ingrain within the with the trying to
uh uh uh what's it called? Mix with the
UFO subject and for what purpose? So, I
didn't think it was a purpose like
Do you do you have a top candidate for
what that project might be? And do you
think that the 2017 article was sort of
the same variety as whatever happened to
Benowitz?
No, I don't think it was a Benowitz
thing because we live in a different
time where information is disseminated
in a completely different way than it
was then.
But do you do you think those you don't
think those three videos that came out?
I don't think they were faked. I'm
pretty sure they weren't faked.
Okay.
But I think you know Roarshock blot
again. Um,
Swiss Army knife again.
Mhm.
Get something that everybody's
interested in. There's a lot of emotion
around it. There's no real idea about
what it might be and then use it for
whatever you need to use it for, either
to deflect or direct attention.
And
I think, and this is just me being dumb,
um, at the time, and I think still,
although in the last few months, it's
probably me mis messed up now. I think
there was a cold war going on with
China, and they're just trying to keep
it from going hot.
I have a friend that that lives there
near Los Alamos.
This friend told me, "You want a job?"
And I said, "What?" She said, "Lo Alamos
is hiring." I said, "I don't I don't
have any of those skills." It was a
woman. She said, "You can you can you
can write English competently, can't
you?" It's like, "Yeah, you edit video.
They need those people." I said, "Why
why does Los Alamos need those people?"
She said, "There's a huge nuclear arms
race going on right now, and they're
building bombs like mad."
Um,
and uh, and I just thought it sort of
coincided with what all this big buildup
with the now and I don't know if it's
directly related, but I think the UFO
subject right now is being used as a as
a fulcrum to figure out what people
think, where people's attention can be
drawn. I mean, it's just I I see it as
this giant like social experiment
seeing, you know, how can we use this to
our advantage,
right? Um and on top of that there's a
technology advantage. Um there's a
advantage where you have some technology
that might look like that and that can
be you know attention to be directed
towards or away from that.
And I you know I know that sounds vague,
but I'm not privy to that information. I
I mean you probably had other people on
here that probably know a lot more than
I do about that. Um but my suspicion is
that it's being used for um uh political
gainsmanship. um uh uh covering up uh uh
defense tech, black projects, all that
stuff.
Well, it's definitely being allowed to
be amplified at the very least. And I
look at some of the people
and I think it's metastasized and then
and that it's all over the place now cuz
somebody probably thought let's just do
this little thing announces because I
guess the time had come has come and
it's become this big thing. The other
thing I think and I'll I won't interrupt
you but the other thing I think is
it is
crowdsourcing
expertise around the subject. So people
with people with the with the training
and the equipment and and the motivation
but were scared to before are going to
concentrate on the UFO subject and and
put some expertise to bear on it which
was um uh uh was discouraged in the
past. It was it was it you know now that
stigma has been lifted.
I think it that's right like I think
about this.
So that's a good that's a good thing
that's happened.
That's a total good thing. I I also
think like one of the things that I got
interested in through the UFO subject,
but in some ways, you know, is the most
out of left field and uncorrelated with
kind of consensus ufology, like really
came out of left field was Towns and
Brown stuff around like, you know,
gravity manipulation experiments.
Oh, yeah. He said that he was really
impressed with your like digging into
that Towns and Brown stuff. You know,
Bill Moore interviewed interviewed T.
Towns and Brown. I that's why I want to
talk to him because I know he did and he
made that movie, The Cosmic Conspiracy
about
I may have his notes from that. I'll
look for them for you.
Thank you, man. That means a lot. Yeah,
I'd appreciate that. So, but with the
Brown stuff, um it's people don't know
who he Well, I'm also I'm convinced
that, you know, I've I've signaled to no
end that like if I am doing anything
that like seriously hurts like American
national security or like, you know,
get, you know, then like I I I want to
know, but nobody nobody said anything.
So, it's like it's just like, you know,
sort of empty on the other end. So, at
that point, somebody I imagine has made
a call on high that like we're going to
allow some of that stuff to come out
too, even though, you know, completely
organically looked into it and kind of I
think corroborated a lot of his stuff.
Yeah. And somebody probably made a call
that like, you know, I'm not like
extremely wellversed in like some of the
high level theoretical physics around it
that at least saying this guy created
this topological physics effect, you
know, we're probably past the point of
like that being okay, you know, the
Bfield Brown
Bfield Brown effect. Yeah.
So I you could be right that like there
are these like surprising but adjacent
things that UFOs give you a framework
for. Yeah. that like you know
maybe whoever in the Navy or whatever
was hoping for that.
Yeah. They want like energy unlocks and
they want more surface area on
who don't know what UFOs are. It's going
to push Bud Hopkins of all people.
You have a whole secret science kind of
initiation
having a recording of him from 1987
or something. I videotaped him for a
documentary and he said eufology or UFOs
are are dragging us kicking and
screaming into the science of the 21st
century and it's kind of happening now.
I agree. Well, John Mack would talk
about, you know, head of the Harvard
psychiatry department, friends with Bud
Hopkins. Yeah. Um, you know, who would
see all these, you know, abductees.
He would talk about how UFOs would
inspire tech because it would look like
like you had the airship of the 1890s or
whatever, it would look like tech that
was just about to come out.
And um, you know, Bill Lear is quoted in
1956, you know, he was the father of
John Leer and invented the first, you
know, jet. Yeah. Lear Jet, first private
jet. basically. And he said, you know, I
believe anti-gravity is possible because
UFOs display them. And so I that to me
is just this really important thing.
kind of a chapter on anti-gravity in
Project Beta actually
about the about that memo from the
British whatever
society of of gravity research or
something and it it was released
sometime
the copy I saw was stamped right
Patterson Air Force Base on it and it
missed about like five pages like
there's this big legend about the
missing five pages about where it's like
it was achieved in the mid-century in
and then it cuts off and then it like
well we know that right airfield field
was sponsoring the Chapel Hill
conference in 1957 at University of
North Carolina with the top theoretical
physicists in the world and at the same
time the UNC Chapel Hill was sponsoring
Towns and Brown's work on anti-gravity.
We know that right airfield had a
dedicated team of people working on
anti-gravity which included Lewis
Whitten father of Ed Whitten who is at
Martin Corporation's RA their
anti-gravity division and he's says in
an interview live that we have tape of
he goes I was hired to do gravity by
right airfield and that's what I did.
The reason there was a laboratory at
Wrightfield was to find out what we were
doing and to help us do it. And I got a
contract from Wrightfield to do it to do
[music] gravity which I did very
happily.
And you have Josh Goldberg who's a PhD
from Syracuse who's a top physicist also
working on the theoretical underpinnings
of anti-gravity. Yeah.
So we know that this stuff was extremely
in vogue in the 50s. Mhm.
Um,
and who knows, it may have been done or
partially done. I have a friend that was
in the Air Force
and he said that um when they go when
the stealth fighter lands
Mhm.
people go in and pull panels out of it
and put them in briefcases and go away.
And he said the rumor was that some of
those were anti-gravity just to help it
fly in a different way that, you know,
not total anti-gravity, but to help the
avionics.
Yep.
That's a that's a rumor
that is possible. I I go back and forth
on that with like the B2 for example
where I I don't see a ton of hard
evidence that the Paul
there never is. But maybe that rumor was
was was given to me just to see who
would talk about it come from. It's just
one of those things where you pour dye
down a like 50 pipes and you see where
the dye comes out, you know?
Yeah. Well, I track the Brown stuff
pretty closely, and I think his work did
make it into the B2,
but the part of the aspect of his work
that made it into the B2 is electric
fields and their ability to manage air
flow over an airframe and confer a
tactical advantage when it comes to
reducing uh the lift to drag ratio.
Right. Okay.
So, that's all I've ever found on a
really first principles level. And then
there's a bunch of hand.
That might be it. That might have been
what the guy was talking about.
I think so. But
maybe it's mixed in with the Brown
Legend because of that. Yeah. Well, I I
I I know that I'm pretty sure 95% that
Brown's stuff made it into the B2
bomber. In fact, Floyd Odlam, who is the
majority owner of Northrup, who funded
Brown's work in the 60s,
paid Brown 4,000 bucks or I don't
remember, 2,000 bucks 4,000 bucks a
month, his family uh uh the same amount
uh until until he died. Yeah.
Uh until the 80s. Yeah. So, Catalina or
whatever it was.
Yeah. Exactly. Good memory. Um, yeah.
So, I don't know. It's fascinating.
Yeah. UFOs really are, you've you've
made this analogy to me on the phone
before. It's like if you have a bunch of
pipes and the pipes represent, you know,
possible leaks in intelligence, you pour
some dye in the pipes and you see where
the dye goes. Yeah.
And UFOs, I think, are used as a tactic
for that where it's like you sprinkle in
a UFO here, that's, you know,
or a rumor about a UFO or some case or
whatever and you see it's like, don't
talk about this. Then you see who talks
about it.
You see who tra Yeah. Exactly. And then
you see who's trustworthy.
It's funny. A long time ago while I was
working on this book and before that
from knowing Bill, if somebody tells you
don't talk about this,
I always think it's a test.
Me too. I always think and I've that's
happened to me before. It's happened to
me on a thing that's was later debunked
publicly. Yeah. And I was like, I know
what you're doing.
[laughter]
I know you're telling me this cuz you
see I'm going to leak stuff about the
tic tac incident and pilots whose names
hadn't been released yet. I was told
don't talk about this.
You were you were Yeah. And then like 6
months later, bam, their names are out
there. And I think whoever told me
So in your case, it was true.
Yeah, it was true.
So So you were given like David Fraver's
name before the Tic Tac incident or
something before.
Alex Dedric and a couple others. I was
That's crazy.
Yeah.
Interesting. And I talked to Alex Dedric
later, but I didn't tell her that.
Can you say who gave you that
information?
Nope.
There [laughter] you go. You passed the
test to whoever did that. That's wild.
Crazy. Interesting.
Yeah.
Whoa.
And it doesn't mean I'm hooked into any
like great network or anything, but
that's, you know, and it used to be a
lot this would happen. Now about once or
twice a year, somebody will tell me
that. Yeah. Lynn Buchanan, who I've
known for a long time, the Army remote
viewer.
Yeah. He told me like I don't know eight
or nine years ago that he had met with
an alien.
He said, "But don't talk about this to
anybody." I like, "Why'd you meet with
the alien?" He said, "Well, they wanted
to see if I could communicate with it
because I was one of the remote
viewers." He said, "But don't mention."
I said, "All right."
He said,
then like five years later, he said it
online somewhere, so I can say it now.
Whoa.
Really?
Yeah.
Is he So, he's still on record claiming
that he's met an alien.
Yeah.
The the remote. At least I hope it came
out cuz I saw it later. He had mentioned
it in somebody's interview or on a
podcast or something.
Where did he meet the alien?
I don't know. He didn't tell me. It was
probably on a base somewhere. At least
he wanted me to think that.
Wow.
I don't know Lynn really well, but he's
I I interviewed him in like 97 or
something. So, I've kind of he's we've
been meeting every once in a while since
then, and every once in a while he'll
he'll that's the only thing he ever told
me. Don't say it. Don't mention it. And
I said, "Why'd you tell me?" He said,
"It's for your information."
Wow. But there's so many little bits and
pieces of information like that that
just float around and I think a lot of
them are just kind of like throwaways of
something that used to be important.
Yeah.
But it isn't anymore. But then they
become this lore in the UFO community
and then they just stick and they grow
and you know it's it's just it's you
know fertile ground for any weird rumor
like this to grow. Do you suspect like
um Diana Pulka came out with a quote
where because she she was friends with
Chris Bledsoe who had all these UFO
interactions. I by the way I'm not in
any of the drama. I love Diana Pasoka
and I love Chris Bledo. I think they're
both
I'm the same way.
So uh but Dian Pasoka came out and she
said I think Chris Bledsoe is a modern
Paul Benowitz. Um Chris Bledsoe claimed
to, you know, have an interaction with
this goddess Hatheror and see also at
Alien Craft and
and a bunch of government people are
very interested in him, which is I think
pretty demonstrabably true.
No, that is demonstrabably true. You
know, he'll say like I'm
so kind of the same dynamic, I guess.
So, do do you think it is the same
dynamic? Do you think they're just
genuine friends or like what do you
think? I think whoever is interested in
the subject thinks he may be a key to
the answer or part of it.
And when that happens then they just
become friendly and tell I've had this
happen and you probably have too.
Somebody comes from the government and
tells you something that nobody else
knows or very few people know and then
they say, you know, I'm telling you this
for not Lynn didn't do this
because we've known each other for
years, but that just
because they want you, they want to
flatter your ego and get your confidence
and find things out. Yep.
And I'm not saying that, you know, Saman
or whoever the people that are talking
to him are like, you know, we're going
to get all of his information and throw
him down, you know, throw him throw him
out with the trash. No, I think they're
genuinely interested. Yeah. And they
genuinely think something some useful
information can come from him. And if
they're friendly with him, they can get
some of this information that could be
useful either both for their own
personal uh uh uh quest and and uh
knowledge and also for whoever they
might be working with or for.
Totally. I don't think you know,
not to say that any of those all those
people are wonderful and moral, but
yeah. But I don't think I don't think
you can immediately jump to the
conclusion that they are modern Rick
Dodies either. I think no different. You
can be in the government and earnestly
want disclosure. And usually if you're
in the government there are caveats to
your earnest desire for disclosure that
involve national security. But I I yeah
I don't think
I don't paint them with of all them with
this evil brush. That's not how the
world works. I don't think you can a
prior impugn anybody's motives unless
they prove to be really, you know, bad
actors.
Yeah.
Um
and if they do and they're working in
intelligence, they're not always bad
actors. It's always something or other.
And that's why I, you know, I think, you
know, for my they said, "What do you
think of Richard Dodie?" It's like, I
don't hate him.
Yeah.
I don't think he's evil. I just think he
was doing his job and he likes messing
with people and that's it. Also,
and what he did, some of the things he
did were morally wrong and he knows it.
Also, if we have, you know, take it face
value that we had a remote viewing
program for 23 years, at the very least,
we probably have covert remote viewing
programs now. And
take it face value that some of that
remote viewing was effective. You have a
guy in North Carolina who is claiming
these like remarkable stories around
kind of a miracle healing that he's
experienced and you know messages that
he's getting involving prophecies.
If you take the first thing as a real
intelligence modality that obviously
needs to be corroborated by other
intelligence modalities, you're going to
take seriously this dude in North
Carolina. Yeah.
Um and you're going to be probably very
interested in that. You've got antenna
up and you're correlating all kinds of
different information, most of which
might be BS.
Sure.
But the stuff that isn't is worth all
the other combing through this stuff.
Yeah. Yeah. Absolutely. The thing I
found too, I don't know if you found
this, but sometimes people inside the
government are more conspiratorial than
people on the outside. Like you assume
that
because they've seen it.
That's right.
They see it all the time.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. you once you're in
this for anything where you've get a
little glimpse into how some famous
person or some you know somebody that's
don't that not too many people know or a
government operative when you see what's
going on with them just get a little
glimpse of it you realize how much
what we all see and in the news and all
that has already been decided like
months or years before and it's not like
you know it's not some conspiracy it's
just the way the world works Yes.
You're not you and I are only privy to a
certain amount of information and other
people are privy to less and other are
more or way more and there's and you
know it's kind of our our you know you
and I are interested in it's like what
are those people above us doing? What is
coming down the road? How is that going
to affect us? What does the past look
like because of that? What does the
future look like because of that? Who
does it affect?
You know, should I be emotional about
this? Is there a moral issue with this?
I want to know all these things. And so
I've got antenna up just like these
weirdo government people and I've
learned things from them too,
you know, just how to operate and how to
think. And part of that, like you said,
is being a little bit paranoid, but only
a little bit because I've been a lot
paranoid for about a year. And I didn't
like it.
That's [laughter] a lot. Paranoids never
get um I made this documentary with
David Grush uh in September of 2023
after he testified before Congress. He
said that he, you know, uh, gave over
like, I think like hundreds of pages,
maybe over a thousand pages to the, uh,
you know, intelligence community,
Inspector General, uh, you know,
experienced reprisals based on his
blowing the whistle. And he brought
forward 40 people directly to the ICIG
who had, you know, worked on this stuff,
uh, firsthand. And we're still in this
sort of liinal space even though he did
all that, which is kind of crazy. I just
wanted to put enough out there, touch on
all the most sensitive parts like the
biologic side and like things that
really need to come out.
Yeah.
But I'm I don't want to overly disclose
cuz it's not my job. I don't know him
well. I don't even know if I know the
details about
remember the details about what he was
saying except to you know uh shore up
that the government is interested in the
subject has been for a long time and a
lot deeper than we think.
Yeah. Well, his the substance of what he
said is that we have um non-human
bodies, pilots, craft, we have, you
know, craft in our possession.
Uh that we have
Okay. Yeah. Now I'm remembering.
Yeah. Crashes on record. He talks about
the Magenta crash 1933.
Um he even kind of talks about, you
know, possible agreements, I believe, in
the Ross Koulard interview. And then he
says he has all these firsthand
witnesses. And
again like I I know him to have a very
idetic sort of memory and to be a very
you know intense kind of you know as
mild autism you know researcher. So
he does uh you know definitely not fit
the pattern of some of these other
really slick and smooth savvy guys.
Uh so it's interesting. Um,
yeah. But
well, it the the mistake I think people
make with Grush and other people is that
they want to know if they're telling the
truth or not.
Like that's not the question.
I think the question is is what they're
saying relevant and um can connections
be made with what they say to other
things that things have been said and
also documentation if you can get it.
It's just kind of this it's a I keep
using the word concatenation, but it's a
concatenation of all this stuff
together.
And when somebody says, "Well, I think
that person's lying." It's like, "Why?"
Cuz he said this. It's like, "He said
like 500 things."
So, you're saying everything he said is
a lie based on this one thing you think
is a lie or have you proven as a lie or
is wrong or inaccurate. That's not how
the world works. No, it's especially not
how the UFO world works.
Yeah. I think it's tough being in that
whistleblower position because
the more you say, the more surface area
exists on, you know, what you Yeah. the
more falsifiable everything.
There's more ways for people to get
their hooks in and pull you apart. Yeah.
And and and
and it's going to happen.
It's not like you're commenting on
you're not like a sports commentator on
ESPN. People are like, "This is the
truth." And if you say one wrong thing,
you know.
Yeah. Well, that's different because I I
I always had that analogy. people look
at that analogy people made. If with
this was brought into a court of law,
then you know it' be proven. It's like
no wouldn't because we know about
murders and and robberies and stuff.
This is dealing with something we can't
bring in a lab and prove and not many
people had experience with. So it's a
whole different thing and it's throwing
all these uh different definitions we
have and you know I hate the word
ontology but throwing everybody's
ontology into question. It's like how
much of this are you going to let into
your life? How much of this is relevant
to you? you know, is it just like, you
know, is it just like talking about
movies and TV shows or something or does
this mean more? I think it means way
more. But I also don't know how much of
this stuff is g much more of it is going
to come out because I think that every
time the government says, "Hey, let's
look at UFOs for a while." When the
usefulness of looking at it and having
it in the public is gone, bam, it's
gone. And then suddenly everybody's
like, "Well, whoa, whoa, well, you were
just going to tell us what it was." M
and this has been the longest and the
strongest I've ever seen it go on.
And so I don't know what the endgame is,
but I have a really strong feeling that
as soon as what whoever gets what they
need to get or it's not useful anymore
that faucet's going to be turned off.
I hope I'm wrong.
Yeah.
Because I'd like to see something.
Although the disclosure thing still kind
of irritates me because my one quote
about it and I keep saying it and I've
been saying it for years. Disclosure is
like asking the parent that always lies
to you to tell you this truth. The truth
just this one time. And if they don't
tell you what you want to hear, they're
lying.
I love that. Well, there are two vectors
though. There's like is the government
ever going to like let some of this
stuff ultimately out in the way of like
showing you a craft.
And what do they know?
And what do they actually know? Like do
they actually know anything as far as
like some metaphysical worldview that
it's super concrete as opposed to, you
know, maybe not. Maybe it's just
ephemeral for them. It's too too much to
admit it because it's not explainable in
terms that people would understand. So
what's the point? And it's much more
useful the way it is now, which is that
that Swiss Army knife that I was talking
about.
Yeah. But I do think so there are two
different vectors. There's the
government vector. I do think if we just
followed up on some of David Grush's,
you know, face value claims that would
be like really exciting if we could like
corroborate, you know, some of those.
Um, and it's crazy that it still exists
in this liinal kind of kind of kind of
space.
Well, the UFO exists in a liinal space,
so it drags everything else along with
it.
Right. [laughter] Right. Right. Right.
Right.
I mean, that's the model it's coming
from. So, it's going to be fighting that
the whole time.
Yeah. Right. Sure. [laughter]
Prove this limonality to me. Break, you
know, um, uh, uh, uh, collapse the
waveform. I don't know if that's going
to happen.
Well, that Yeah. I mean, then you're
getting into deeper stuff, which is so
the there's a government vector and then
there's like a belief consensus reality
vector and like
most people believe there's aliens and
exist and UFOs are real and all. Most
people believe that all.
Yeah. No, it's like probably over 50% of
America. So if there's some other like
version of reality that is
egregoric in nature where like you are
literally uh you know gonna create
manifesting things in your purview
then
the amount of momentum that I see now
has to turn into something and I don't
know what that turns into.
I don't know either. I like that Whitley
Strieber quote where he said the
government was keeping it secret because
if enough people believed in it would it
allow it in. [laughter]
Fascinating. I think he said that in um
um um
Communion.
No, wasn't in Communion. It was in uh uh
his uh Majestic. It was his um semi
fictional account of the Roswell crash
and everything after it.
Right. Right. Right.
Really good. Um a lot of metaphors in
there which are still relevant and I I I
still go back to
I love it. Well, I'll check that out.
Have you had Whitley on?
I have. Yeah.
Yeah. It was great. He's always a good
He's always a good interview. And people
I was at uh Contact. I got to get up on
I got to speak at Contact. I wasn't
scheduled.
Amazing.
But I got up on stage cuz Dean Aliota
showed his film um Alien Perspective.
Uhhuh.
And one of the first things I said when
I was they asked me for a statement. I
said you and I've said this before. You
know why I believe people say do you
believe Whitley Streamer? said, "I
believe him in the way I believe, you
know, the Beatles or the Foo Fighters or
or or or Van Gogh or, you know, Jackson
Pollock."
He's a great artist.
He's a great artist telling you the
truth of how he sees something that has
affected him.
Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Well, I think that's
the case of, you know, when it comes to
a lot of experiencers
and then people say, "Well, then he just
made it up." It's like, no, art doesn't
come from nothing. It comes, it comes
from the artist's feelings. it his or
her um life experience, everything. And
the way Whitley's explaining to us is
the way an artist would explain the
abduction phenomenon to us and it's in a
way that nobody else talks about it like
like he does and I've enjoyed it from
the beginning.
Well, that's a beautiful note to end on.
Greg Bishop, thank you so much for
coming on. Thank you for your work.
Everybody go out and buy Project Beta as
well as
it defies language and um yeah, thank
you man.
Thanks a lot. All right.